Veronica Hanus Resume-3.md, before:

<h1>Veronica Hanus</h1> 
Veronica has been working on the edge of software engineering for years. Her background is in the earth sciences, where her experience has included geochemistry, paleomagnetism, and landing-site selection for the [Mars Curiosity Rover](http://www.space.com/18027-mars-rover-curiosity-amazing-photos-red-planet.html). She looks forward to being able to create software that helps inform solutions, and leverages her background and interest in people. She welcomes opportunities that can help her stitch together the technical skills she has pursued to embark on a career in web development. She enjoys solving problems, talking about what she's learning, and has been told she's on the better side of the [Dunning-Kruger scale](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunning%E2%80%93Kruger_effect). You can read more about her <a href="#technical">Technical</a>, <a href="#organization">Organization</a>, <a href="#teaching">Teaching</a>, and <a href="#education">Educational</a> accomplishments, review her <a href="#skills">Skills</a>, or see what she's up to <a href="#current">right now</a>.

[email](mailto:vehanus@gmail.com) <i class="icon-mail"></i> | [github](https://github.com/vzhz)<i class=""></i> | [linkedin](https://www.linkedin/.com/in/veronicahanus)<i class=" "></i> | [twitter](https://twitter.com/veronica_hanus) <i class="icon-twitter"></i>| [.pdf resume](https://vzhz.github.io/doc/vh-resume.pdf)<i class="icon-file"></i> 

------------------


*Technical*
----
Code Explorer, Recurse Center, New York City, NY | Sep. - Dec. 2015
>* Focused on building modular programs in Python, emphasizing best-practice design and user needs
>* Presented on [TeX history and LaTeX typesetting language](https://github.com/vzhz/LaTeXresources)
>* Started beginner programmer daily checkins to allow folks to learn from and support each other


Research Engineer, Schlumberger-Doll Research Center, Cambridge, MA | Mar. - Dec. 2014

>* Prepared samples, collected mineralogy data, and presented findings for projects from the Vaca Muerta, Eagle Ford, Marcellus, Bakken & Qusaiba formations
>* Rebuilt mineral standards library, increasing the number of standards from 34 to 75

Research Assistant, [MIT Paleomagnetism Laboratory](http://scripts.mit.edu/~paleomag/pages/intro.php), Cambridge, MA | Jan. 2012 - Oct. 2013

>* Performed conglomerate test and alternating field demagnetization on [early-earth rocks](http://scripts.mit.edu/~paleomag/pages/early-earth.php)
>* Adapted lab procedures to allow single-clast (small) terrestrial samples to be measured for the first time and improved efficiency by saving 30+ hours per run of data collection
>* Supported lab by introducing others to [procedures](http://scripts.mit.edu/~paleomag/pages/instruments.php), completing organizational tasks, including ordering supplies, & trouble-shooting

Data Intern, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA | Jan. - Aug. 2009<br/>


>* Led student effort to determine rock distributions for possible landing sites for the Mars Curiosity Rover and developed methods to incorporate these distributions into GIS datasets. See [student teaching module describing site selection](http://marsed.asu.edu/sites/default/files/pdfs_resources/Curiosity_Landing_Site_2012.pdf)<i class="icon-file"></i> for an overview of the process.
>* Maintained ArcGIS  database and prepared existing data for landing site selection
>* Introduced three students to in-house software for QA element of our project, including reporting procedures, software process, and limitations
>* Develop hazard assessment criteria and communicated this to students
>* Collaborated with software lead to implement improvements
<br/>
> <img style="float: left;" src="https://github.com/vzhz/resume_markdown/blob/master/marsyard.jpg?raw=true" alt="Interns visiting the simulated Martian surface" width="275" height="200">
> <img style="float: right;" src="https://github.com/vzhz/resume_markdown/blob/master/rover_being_built.jpg?raw=true" alt="Watching the rover being built was very motivating on the tough days" width="275" height="200">
<br/>
The team visiting a simulation of the Marian surface & watching the rover being built. <br/>



----------
*Organization*
----

Event Lead, MIT [Student Information Processing Board](https://sipb.mit.edu/) Cluedumps Lecture Series, Cambridge, MA | Fall 2011

>* Facilitated a [fifteen week series of technical lectures](http://cluedumps.mit.edu/wiki/Cluedumps_2011) on a variety of computing-related topics that reached 250+ people

Senior Advisor (2009-2010) & Vice-President (Fall 2008), Colgate University Geological Society, Hamilton, NY 

>* Coordinated quarterly presentations of Earth Science topics at local schools with typical participation of six geology students and 60+ middle school students
>* Directed student trips to locations of geologic interest 
>* Facilitated communication between faculty and students by publicizing class trips, speakers, and club events (even [fossil-hauling](http://news.colgate.edu/2008/12/big-fossils-ferried-across-qua.html/))
>* Coordinated weekly "bad geology" film series and moderated accompanying discussions

Student Senator, Colgate University Student Government Association, Hamilton, NY | 2005-2007

>* Served on Academic Affairs Board as one of two students elected to advocate for student needs 
>* Reconized for problem-solving and outstanding communication with constituents

----------



*Teaching*
------

Remote Tutor, RC Start, Brooklyn, NY | Nov. 2015 - July 2016
>* Provided continuing weekly one-on-one feedback and mentorship guiding a nontraditional student through the first steps of her transition from retail sales to software

Teaching Assistant, Techie Youth, Brooklyn, NY | Jul. - Aug. 2016
>* Assisted in preparing aging-out foster children for positions in IT
>* See [recognition and press](https://www.techieyouth.org/) of this important program 

Science Instructor, Guided Discoveries Astrocamp, Idyllwild, CA | Jan. - Apr. 2015

>* Introduced 3rd-11th graders to planetary science in an experimental teaching environment
>* Redesigned curriculum for the ["Cosmic Lander" class](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t-3CwCxPF3I) that met the NGSS standards and infused the existing course with insights from my work on the Curiosity Rover landing site selection
>I would like to add two gifs (they are vines) but I don't know how to gif yet.

Writing Instructor, MIT Academic Teaching Initiative SAT Prep, Cambridge, MA | 2011-2012

>* Developed and taught a [12-week course](http://ati.mit.edu/sat1) SAT Writing course for 60 students (3 sections)
>* Developed an online system for student homework submission and grading using Google tools
>* Classroom strategies included in-class writing exercises, peer review, take-home prompts and questions, and 1-on-1 writing feedback
>* Over 70% of my students increased their scores 200 points during the course
>* Several students write asking for feedback on college essays and their own practice prompts 1-2 years after the course
>* This low-cost program included many aspiring first-generation college students


Programming Coach, Bootstrap Afterschool Program, Cambridge, MA | Aug. 2011 - May 2012

>* Provided 1-on-1 and group instruction for 14 middle-school students in creating their own games during [10-week program](http://www.bootstrapworld.org/), which has since been adapted by Code.org
>* Used functional programming (Scheme) and pair programing to teach algebraic concepts (Pythagorean theorem & writing appropriate algebraic functions) and programming concepts (problem solving using the [Design Recipe](https://code.org/curriculum/algebra/9/Teacher#GetStarted), data types, Boolean logic, conditional branching, functions and variables)
<br/>
>* See more about the [Bootstrap program in this video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/www.youtube.com/6haTTMiNJxk/0.jpg)

Grant Writer, ARRL Education and Technology Program Grant for School Radio Equipment, Fremont, NE | Dec. 2010
>* Wrote a $3,000 grant to purchase robotics for after-school programs in a disadvantaged community

 
GIS Instructor and Coach, Academy Robot Club, Elkhorn, NE | Fall 2010
>* Integrated [GIS and robotics](http://academy.qualityone.us/) to  make them accessible to 10 middle-school and junior high students

----------

*Education*
----
Colgate University, Hamilton, NY | BA, Geology | May 2010
>* Alumni Memorial Scholar Fellowship Awardee 
>* $5,000 award for top 2% of each class year to fund research projects

Homeschooled K-12, Fremont, NE | May 2005
>* National Merit Scholarship Finalist
>* Full-time farm kid


----------

*Skills*
---
OS     | Comfort|	
------|------- |
Mac  |Most current knowledge       
Linux    |We're like old friends      
MS     |It's been a long time       

I want these two tables to be next to each other (esp. if I change to some sort of smilie faces or hot peppers to show level of how awesome I am - how?

Language | Ability|
---------|---------
Python | Has been quoted as saying "oh, we have that" when asked if Python has a certain feature. Therefore, it seems I am Python.
LaTeX | My first programming language and preferred method of formatting <3
HTML/CSS | Centering elements is surprisingly hard
Rails  | Started the [Rebuilding Rails](http://rebuilding-rails.com/RebuildingRailsFree.pdf) tutorial, but it seems a Rails project should happen first!
JavaScript | Written fewer than 30 lines using the sample project in ["Ugh, Code"](https://ughco.de/), still wishing it was Python
Web-skills | I resemble a cat searching the inside of a paper bag

**Certifications**
Licensed Private Pilot | National Registry Certified Emergency Medical Technician (EMT-B) | Wilderness First Aid Certified | CPR/AED for Professional Rescuers | Red Cross First Aid/AED/CPR Instructor
 
*Publications and references available upon request.*

-------------------

*Current*
---
In my day-to-day, I am balancing several projects and trying to keep my checkbook balanced at the same time. I've built [a personal website](https://vzhz.github.io/) and as I've learned more about programming, I've tried to impliment each improvement on that site, which has meant less duplicated code, better file structure, improved alt text, a (confusingly non-working) RSS feed, and validated HTML and CSS. I'm currently in the process of templating my (currently very redundent) static blog with [Jinja](http://jinja.pocoo.org/). <br/>

I'm also making a webpage with a form that returns text about what I'm doing in my life (kind of like an automated holiday card) as a first web project and a stepping stone to projects that other people will enjoy even more than an update from me. So far, I have the form built and have been struggling through the "how does the web work" part of starting a web project. I am just starting to have the courage to explore the devloper tools in the browser and I know I have a long way to go before I am confident using them. <br/>

When I take breaks from learning to program, I'm dreaming of [my next outdoor adventure](https://vzhz.github.io/blog/2015/07/10/seven-days-on-a-bike.html), [crafting things](https://vzhz.github.io/blog/2016/11/29/new-charger.html), doing spur-of-the-moment adventures like [hauling my (new!) mattress across Manahattan](https://github.com/vzhz/resume_markdown/blob/master/mattress.jpg), and walking dogs for some combination of love and money. <br/>


<!--Even though I like pair programming and working with other folks, I'm usually pushing forward with myself and my google skills.<br/>-->
<!--I find breaking projects into parts and identifying what I need to learn to do each one challenging (and exciting!). People who I talk to about programming regularly comment that my approach to learning is to dip my toe into many skills and change directions often. -->

Commit message:

add description of Recurse, remove comment about table placement

Veronica Hanus Resume-3.md, after:

<h1>Veronica Hanus</h1> 
Veronica has been working on the edge of software engineering for years. Her background is in the earth sciences, where her experience has included geochemistry, paleomagnetism, and landing-site selection for the [Mars Curiosity Rover](http://www.space.com/18027-mars-rover-curiosity-amazing-photos-red-planet.html). She looks forward to being able to create software that helps inform solutions, and leverages her background and interest in people. She welcomes opportunities that can help her stitch together the technical skills she has pursued to embark on a career in web development. She enjoys solving problems, talking about what she's learning, and has been told she's on the better side of the [Dunning-Kruger scale](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunning%E2%80%93Kruger_effect). You can read more about her <a href="#technical">Technical</a>, <a href="#organization">Organization</a>, <a href="#teaching">Teaching</a>, and <a href="#education">Educational</a> accomplishments, review her <a href="#skills">Skills</a>, or see what she's up to <a href="#current">right now</a>.

[email](mailto:vehanus@gmail.com) <i class="icon-mail"></i> | [github](https://github.com/vzhz)<i class=""></i> | [linkedin](https://www.linkedin/.com/in/veronicahanus)<i class=" "></i> | [twitter](https://twitter.com/veronica_hanus) <i class="icon-twitter"></i>| [.pdf resume](https://vzhz.github.io/doc/vh-resume.pdf)<i class="icon-file"></i> 

------------------


*Technical*
----
Code Explorer, Recurse Center, New York City, NY | Sep. - Dec. 2015
>* Often described as "a writer's workshop for programmers," Recurse is a community that emphasizes communication and personal growth
>* Focused on building modular terminal programs in Python, emphasizing best-practice design and user needs
>* Presented on [TeX history and LaTeX typesetting language](https://github.com/vzhz/LaTeXresources)
>* Started beginner programmer daily checkins to allow folks to learn from and support each other


Research Engineer, Schlumberger-Doll Research Center, Cambridge, MA | Mar. - Dec. 2014

>* Prepared samples, collected mineralogy data, and presented findings for projects from the Vaca Muerta, Eagle Ford, Marcellus, Bakken & Qusaiba formations
>* Rebuilt mineral standards library, increasing the number of standards from 34 to 75

Research Assistant, [MIT Paleomagnetism Laboratory](http://scripts.mit.edu/~paleomag/pages/intro.php), Cambridge, MA | Jan. 2012 - Oct. 2013

>* Performed conglomerate test and alternating field demagnetization on [early-earth rocks](http://scripts.mit.edu/~paleomag/pages/early-earth.php)
>* Adapted lab procedures to allow single-clast (small) terrestrial samples to be measured for the first time and improved efficiency by saving 30+ hours per run of data collection
>* Supported lab by introducing others to [procedures](http://scripts.mit.edu/~paleomag/pages/instruments.php), completing organizational tasks, including ordering supplies, & trouble-shooting

Data Intern, NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA | Jan. - Aug. 2009<br/>


>* Led student effort to determine rock distributions for possible landing sites for the Mars Curiosity Rover and developed methods to incorporate these distributions into GIS datasets. See [student teaching module describing site selection](http://marsed.asu.edu/sites/default/files/pdfs_resources/Curiosity_Landing_Site_2012.pdf)<i class="icon-file"></i> for an overview of the process.
>* Maintained ArcGIS  database and prepared existing data for landing site selection
>* Introduced three students to in-house software for QA element of our project, including reporting procedures, software process, and limitations
>* Develop hazard assessment criteria and communicated this to students
>* Collaborated with software lead to implement improvements
<br/>
> <img style="float: left;" src="https://github.com/vzhz/resume_markdown/blob/master/marsyard.jpg?raw=true" alt="Interns visiting the simulated Martian surface" width="275" height="200">
> <img style="float: right;" src="https://github.com/vzhz/resume_markdown/blob/master/rover_being_built.jpg?raw=true" alt="Watching the rover being built was very motivating on the tough days" width="275" height="200">
<br/>
The team visiting a simulation of the Marian surface & watching the rover being built. <br/>



----------
*Organization*
----

Event Lead, MIT [Student Information Processing Board](https://sipb.mit.edu/) Cluedumps Lecture Series, Cambridge, MA | Fall 2011

>* Facilitated a [fifteen week series of technical lectures](http://cluedumps.mit.edu/wiki/Cluedumps_2011) on a variety of computing-related topics that reached 250+ people

Senior Advisor (2009-2010) & Vice-President (Fall 2008), Colgate University Geological Society, Hamilton, NY 

>* Coordinated quarterly presentations of Earth Science topics at local schools with typical participation of six geology students and 60+ middle school students
>* Directed student trips to locations of geologic interest 
>* Facilitated communication between faculty and students by publicizing class trips, speakers, and club events (even [fossil-hauling](http://news.colgate.edu/2008/12/big-fossils-ferried-across-qua.html/))
>* Coordinated weekly "bad geology" film series and moderated accompanying discussions

Student Senator, Colgate University Student Government Association, Hamilton, NY | 2005-2007

>* Served on Academic Affairs Board as one of two students elected to advocate for student needs 
>* Reconized for problem-solving and outstanding communication with constituents

----------



*Teaching*
------

Remote Tutor, RC Start, Brooklyn, NY | Nov. 2015 - July 2016
>* Provided continuing weekly one-on-one feedback and mentorship guiding a nontraditional student through the first steps of her transition from retail sales to software

Teaching Assistant, Techie Youth, Brooklyn, NY | Jul. - Aug. 2016
>* Assisted in preparing aging-out foster children for positions in IT
>* See [recognition and press](https://www.techieyouth.org/) of this important program 

Science Instructor, Guided Discoveries Astrocamp, Idyllwild, CA | Jan. - Apr. 2015

>* Introduced 3rd-11th graders to planetary science in an experimental teaching environment
>* Redesigned curriculum for the ["Cosmic Lander" class](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t-3CwCxPF3I) that met the NGSS standards and infused the existing course with insights from my work on the Curiosity Rover landing site selection
>I would like to add two gifs (they are vines) but I don't know how to gif yet.

Writing Instructor, MIT Academic Teaching Initiative SAT Prep, Cambridge, MA | 2011-2012

>* Developed and taught a [12-week course](http://ati.mit.edu/sat1) SAT Writing course for 60 students (3 sections)
>* Developed an online system for student homework submission and grading using Google tools
>* Classroom strategies included in-class writing exercises, peer review, take-home prompts and questions, and 1-on-1 writing feedback
>* Over 70% of my students increased their scores 200 points during the course
>* Several students write asking for feedback on college essays and their own practice prompts 1-2 years after the course
>* This low-cost program included many aspiring first-generation college students


Programming Coach, Bootstrap Afterschool Program, Cambridge, MA | Aug. 2011 - May 2012

>* Provided 1-on-1 and group instruction for 14 middle-school students in creating their own games during [10-week program](http://www.bootstrapworld.org/), which has since been adapted by Code.org
>* Used functional programming (Scheme) and pair programing to teach algebraic concepts (Pythagorean theorem & writing appropriate algebraic functions) and programming concepts (problem solving using the [Design Recipe](https://code.org/curriculum/algebra/9/Teacher#GetStarted), data types, Boolean logic, conditional branching, functions and variables)
<br/>
>* See more about the [Bootstrap program in this video](https://img.youtube.com/vi/www.youtube.com/6haTTMiNJxk/0.jpg)

Grant Writer, ARRL Education and Technology Program Grant for School Radio Equipment, Fremont, NE | Dec. 2010
>* Wrote a $3,000 grant to purchase robotics for after-school programs in a disadvantaged community

 
GIS Instructor and Coach, Academy Robot Club, Elkhorn, NE | Fall 2010
>* Integrated [GIS and robotics](http://academy.qualityone.us/) to  make them accessible to 10 middle-school and junior high students
>* Watch a [short video of two students preparing for competition](https://youtu.be/e3kC0oR8hEA)

----------

*Education*
----
Colgate University, Hamilton, NY | BA, Geology | May 2010
>* Alumni Memorial Scholar Fellowship Awardee 
>* $5,000 award for top 2% of each class year to fund research projects

Homeschooled K-12, Fremont, NE | May 2005
>* National Merit Scholarship Finalist
>* Full-time farm kid


----------

*Skills*
---
OS     | Comfort|	
------|------- |
Mac  |Most current knowledge       
Linux    |We're like old friends      
MS     |It's been a long time       


Language | Ability|
---------|---------
Python | Has been quoted as saying "oh, we have that" when asked if Python has a certain feature. Therefore, it seems I am Python.
LaTeX | My first programming language and preferred method of formatting <3
HTML/CSS | Centering elements is surprisingly hard
Rails  | Started the [Rebuilding Rails](http://rebuilding-rails.com/RebuildingRailsFree.pdf) tutorial, but it seems a Rails project should happen first!
JavaScript | Written fewer than 30 lines using the sample project in ["Ugh, Code"](https://ughco.de/), still wishing it was Python
Web-skills | I resemble a cat searching the inside of a paper bag

**Certifications**
Licensed Private Pilot | National Registry Certified Emergency Medical Technician (EMT-B) | Wilderness First Aid Certified | CPR/AED for Professional Rescuers | Red Cross First Aid/AED/CPR Instructor
 
*Publications and references available upon request.*

-------------------

*Current*
---
In my day-to-day, I am balancing several projects and trying to keep my checkbook balanced at the same time. I've built [a personal website](https://vzhz.github.io/) and as I've learned more about programming, I've tried to impliment each improvement on that site, which has meant less duplicated code, better file structure, improved alt text, a (confusingly non-working) RSS feed, and validated HTML and CSS. I'm currently in the process of templating my (currently very redundent) static blog with [Jinja](http://jinja.pocoo.org/). <br/>

I'm also making a webpage with a form that returns text about what I'm doing in my life (kind of like an automated holiday card) as a first web project and a stepping stone to projects that other people will enjoy even more than an update from me. So far, I have the form built and have been struggling through the "how does the web work" part of starting a web project. I am just starting to have the courage to explore the devloper tools in the browser and I know I have a long way to go before I am confident using them. <br/>

When I take breaks from learning to program, I'm dreaming of [my next outdoor adventure](https://vzhz.github.io/blog/2015/07/10/seven-days-on-a-bike.html), [crafting things](https://vzhz.github.io/blog/2016/11/29/new-charger.html), doing spur-of-the-moment adventures like [hauling my (new!) mattress across Manahattan](https://github.com/vzhz/resume_markdown/blob/master/mattress.jpg), and walking dogs for some combination of love and money. <br/>


<!--Even though I like pair programming and working with other folks, I'm usually pushing forward with myself and my google skills.<br/>-->
<!--I find breaking projects into parts and identifying what I need to learn to do each one challenging (and exciting!). People who I talk to about programming regularly comment that my approach to learning is to dip my toe into many skills and change directions often. -->
